Malaria is a serious infectious disease spread by
certain mosquitoes. It is most common in tropical
climates. It is characterized by recurrent symptoms
of chills, fever, and an enlarged spleen. Other symptoms
may include fatigue, severe headache, or nausea and
vomiting.

Malaria can be treated with medication, but it often recurs.
Malaria is endemic (occurs frequently in a particular
locality) in many third world countries. Isolated, small
outbreaks sometimes occur within the boundaries of
the United States, with most of the cases reported as
having been imported from other locations.
Human malaria is caused by four different species
of a parasite belonging to genus Plasmodium: Plasmo-
dium falciparum (the most deadly), Plasmodium vivax,
Plasmodium malariae, and Plasmodium ovale. The last
two are fairly uncommon. Many animals can get
malaria, but human malaria does not spread to ani-
mals. In turn, animal malaria does not spread to
humans.

Malaria cannot be casually transmitted directly
from one person to another. Instead, a mosquito
bites an infected person and then passes the infection
on to the next human it bites. It is also possible to
spread malaria via contaminated needles or in blood
transfusions. This is why all blood donors are carefully
screened with questionnaires for possible exposure to
malaria.
It is possible to contract malaria in non-endemic
areas, although such cases are rare. Nevertheless, at
least 89 cases of so-called airport malaria, in which trav-
elers contract malaria while passing through crowded
airport terminals, have been identified since 1969.

This System is a  Multiple Disease Detection Expert System that is able to detect 45 Diseases in total.

This system can detect  diseases which include  Fungal infection, Allergy, GERD, Chronic cholestasis, Drug Reaction,
Peptic ulcer disease, AIDS, Diabetes, Gastroenteritis, Bronchial Asthma, Hypertension,
Migraine, Cervical spondylosis, Paralysis (brain hemorrhage), Jaundice, Malaria, Chicken pox,
Dengue, Typhoid, hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Hepatitis D, Hepatitis E,
Alcoholic hepatitis, Tuberculosis, Common Cold, Pneumonia, Dimorphic hemorrhoids(piles),
Heart attack, Varicose veins, Hypothyroidism, Hyperthyroidism, Hypoglycemia, Osteoarthritis,
Arthritis, (vertigo) Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo, Acne, Urinary tract infection, Psoriasis and Impetigo
